*Last Updated: April 28, 2025* 

**User Types:**

Users may interact with our site through 3 types of profiles:
- **Anonymous users**: Users will be an anonymous user before they login. These users have no profile associated with them. They can can view hotels on the "All Destinations" page but cannot book hotels or leave reviews. These users can view public collections on the "Influential Collections" page but cannot see private collections on the "Experiences" page. They cannot create any collections.
- **Patrons**: These users have an associated account with basic features. They will have a login (through Google) and a profile. These users can book hotels and leave reviews. They have access to all public collections and can request access to private collections. These users can also make public collections on their profile page.
- **Librarians**: These users have an associated account with additional features. Patrons can become librarians if another librarian or administrator promotes their account to librarian. Librarians will have a login (through Google), a profile, can borrow various items (same as Patrons), but also have the ability to add new items and collections to the CLA. Librarians can view all collections (including private collections). They can also create, edit, and delete all collections and hotels in the "Librarian Portal" page. Librarians can also accept requests to private collections, approve hotel bookings, and promote patrons to librarians/demote librarians to patrons all from their "Librarian Portal".

**Login:** 

The user can login into the application via the Login button at the top right corner of the page. The user MUST use their Google account to log into any account, and their Google account can only be associated with one account at a time. If the user's Google account is not already associated with an account on the site, a patron account with their Gmail is made for them the first time that they log in. 

Note that if the user presses the back arrow after logging in without logging out, another login attempt will trigger a Third-Party Login Failure because the user is already logged into one of their accounts. It is strongly recommended that all users log out before logging in again. Also note that if the user leaves the page before logging out, then when they reopen the application, they will be automatically logged into the last account they were logged into when they left. 

**User Profile:**

On a successful login, the Login button changes to an **Account** button, which redirects the user to their Account dashboard, where they can view their **Profile**, **Current Bookings**, **Reviews**, and **Collections**. 
- On the **Profile** tab, all users can view their **first name**, **last name**, **username**, and **email**, as well as the **date that they joined** and the **date of their last login**. Users can also change their profile photo. Note that users are given a default photo when their account is first made, once they change it, they cannot delete their photo or change it back to the default photo unless they delete their account. Also note that users are not able to delete their account.
- On the **Current Bookings** tab, users can view the attributes of their hotel bookings, including the name of the hotel being booked, the date the booking was created, the start and end dates of the stay, the total cost of the stay, and the status of the booking (either Pending, Approved, or Denied). Users are able to cancel their bookings. Both approved and pending bookings can be cancelled using the "Cancel Booking" button.
- On the **Reviews** tab, users can view the past reviews they made on a hotel. The information of each review includes the name of the hotel the user reviewed, the comment and the rating given in the review. Reviews can also be deleted on this page; however, they can only be edited through the Destination page.
- On the **Collections** tab, user can view collections they made as well as private collections that they have exclusive access to. As a reminder, patrons can only create public collections, but librarians can create private collections, so they are allowed to set the visibility of their collections as either Public or Private. When creating a collection only the title is a required field; collections can be made without a description. Once a collection is made, the user is redirected to a page where they can see the name, visibility, and items of the hotel. They also have options to add hotels to the collection, modify the name or description of the collection, or delete the collection. 

**Librarian Portal:**
- In addition to the general user profile, librarians also have a separate dashboard where they can manage items, collections, and users on the Items, Collections, and Users tabs respectively.

- On the **Items** tab, librarians can click on the Create Item button to create new hotels by specifying the title, status (either Available, On Loan, or Maintenance), location, price per night, and description of the hotel as well as a banner and thumbnail image in a pop-up form. They can also view all of the current hotels on the application in a table that shows each hotel’s name, status, location, and price per night as well as the Actions that the user can take to manage the hotel: Edit and Delete. If the user clicks the Edit button, a pop-up appears with the same fields as the form for creating new hotels, except each field is populated with the current attributes of the hotel located in the same row as the button. If the user clicks the Delete button, a pop-up will appear at the top of the page to confirm whether the user wants to remove the hotel in the same row as the button from the application. 

- On the **Collections** tab, librarians can click on the Create Collection button to create a new collection by specifying the title, description, and visibility (either Public or Private). When creating a collection only the title and visibility are required fields; collections can be made without a description. Once a collection is made, the user is redirected to a page where they can see the name, visibility, and items of the hotel. They also have options to add hotels to the collection, modify the name or description of the collection, or delete the collection. Note that once a collection is made, its visibility cannot be modified. Alternatively, librarians can get to the collection page from the Collections tab by clicking on the Modify button in the same row as the collection that they want. On the bottom of the Collections tab, librarians can also approve or deny pending requests to exclusive collections. They can also revoke access to users that already have access to an exclusive collection.

- On the **Users** tab, librarians can view the attributes of every user that is either a patron or librarian, including their username, email, first name, and last name as well as the date they joined, the date of their last login. Using the View and Demote Account, librarians can see the profiles of other users and demote any librarian to a patron respectively. 

**Menu:** 

The Menu serves as the main navigation bar in the top left corner of the home page. The Menu can take users to 4 different pages: 
- **All Destinations**: On this page users will see a list of all hotels. They can search for specific hotels in the "Search Destinations..." search bar at the top of the listings. The search is based on the name or description of the hotel. Each listing should have a "Discover" button that will take the user to a page with more information on that listing. Here users should see a "Book Now" button, and a "Write a Review" button. If an anonymous user presses either of these buttons they will be redirected to the Google login page. If a patron or librarian clicks "Write a Review" they will be prompted to select a star rating out of 5 and write a description. Once they click "Submit Review", their review should appear on the hotel's discover page. The user should also see this review in their profile under "Reviews". If a patron or librarian clicks "Book Now", they will be prompted to pick two dates: their check-in and check-out. Users can see information about their booking on this page including the dates they've selected, how many nights they will have the hotel for, and the total price for their stay. If all of this information looks good, the user can click "Book Now" to make a booking request. This booking will be under the user's profile under "Bookings" tagged as "pending" until their request gets approved (the booking will then be tagged as "approved"). 
- **Experiences**: Anonymous users should see no collections on this page. Patrons and librarians should see a list of collections, each with a "Request Access" button. If the user clicks "Request Access", they should see a pop-up: "Access request submitted successfully". Once their request is approved, the user should be able to view items in this collection.
- **Influential Collections**: Here users can see all public collections. They can click on the collections to see all items in the collection.
- **About Us**: Finally, the About Us page has information on the website and our team.  
